want to get verified on Instagram now's
your chance in early 2023 meta which is
of course the parent company of Facebook
and Instagram rolled out their new
platform meta verified but at the time
meta verified was only available to
individual humans Brands businesses pet
profiles groups or Community Pages could
not be a part of meta verified that is
until September 20th 2023 when meta
announced that they are rolling out meta
verified to All Brands and businesses
first and foremost let's go over what is
included in meta verified because it's
more than just the blue check and this
is what has been included for
individuals who were a part of meta
verified and this is what also will be
included for businesses which are now
going to be able to apply and be
verified as well there are four main
benefits that are a part of meta
verified first and foremost is what
everyone is familiar with which is the
blue verification badge and of course to
many people the blue verification badge
is just a superficial icon that is
ultimately meaningless but also to a lot
of consumers out there the blue
verification badge proves that you are a
legitimate business and even that you
are a newsworthy or noteworthy figure so
as much as some people may poo poo the
verification badge and as much as some
people may say that its value is going
to be diluted with all these people who
are purchasing It ultimately it still
carries some weight the second benefit
that is included a part of meta
verification is increased account
security basically better protection
against hacks and having your account
taken down or stolen the Third benefit
that is offered as a part of meta
verification is increased impersonation
protection this is another awesome
benefit that's being offered because
especially if you're someone who has
built any amount of following on
Instagram you know that the spammers the
Bots and the hackers are quick to
impersonate you especially if you're in
some sort of a business or financial
related Niche there are so many
impersonator accounts and when you have
that blue check mark first and foremost
it's very easy for your followers to say
hey this is the Brock 11 Johnson with
the blue check this is the Brock 11
Johnson underscore without the blue
check the one with the blue check is the
one who is trustworthy and verified to
be real but also on top of that meta
will be actively searching out for
impersonator accounts and will be
removing accounts that are impersonating
verified profiles the fourth and final
benefit is another really awesome
benefit that is offered by meta as a
part of their verification program which
is that you are going to be able to have
a direct line of communication a chat
with a real human being who works for
the support department at meta this as
far as I'm concerned is the only
reliable way to get in touch with
someone who works at Facebook or
Instagram unless you know somebody or
you have a friend of a friend of a
friend or you have some personal contact
at meta they're really really hard to
get a hold of and this could be for
something small like a glitch that's
happening on your profile or this could
be for something massive like an
impersonator or a hack that's ongoing
but regardless the ability to be able to
reach out to meta staff is so invaluable
those are the four listed benefits of
meta verified of course there are other
non-listed benefits benefits that aren't
necessarily directly provided by meta
such as some people report that their
engagement goes up when they have that
verification badge the thought here is
that basically when you have that blue
check mark next to your profile people
think you're more official and then
they're more likely to engage with your
post that isn't necessarily conclusive
and we don't have a ton of data that
suggests that it either is beneficial or
isn't beneficial but those four main
benefits that I just listed are
guaranteed as a part of meta verified
with that being said let's talk about
how do you qualify how do you apply and
how do you actually get meta verified
now if you're an individual who wants to
be verified as a part of meta verified
you have to live in one of the countries
that I have previously stated you have
to have your full name in either your
username or your Instagram name it does
not have to be in both but it has to be
in one or the other for example if you
look at my Instagram my handle is Brock
11 Johnson my username Brock 11 Johnson
so so it has my first and last name in
my username thus I don't need to have it
repeated in my Instagram name my
Instagram name is that bold text that's
right below my profile picture that says
Instagram growth coach so criteria
number one you need to have your legal
first and last name in either your
username or your Instagram name the
second criteria and this is specifically
for individuals who want to be meta
verified is that you need to have your
face somewhere in your profile picture
and actually somewhere clearly visible
in your profile picture additionally as
always you can't violate Instagram's
Community guidelines or else you won't
qualify for meta verified your account
must be older than 120 days so as long
as you haven't recently started a new
account you should be fine and finally
you have to have two Factor
authentication enabled so while we don't
exactly have a full list of criteria yet
from Instagram for business profiles we
can assume that those final three points
are going to remain the same you can't
violate Instagram's Community guidelines
your business profile needs to be more
than 120 days old and you need to have
two Factor authentication turned on most
likely criteria number one and number
two are what are going to change so if
you want to have your business verified
or your brand your company your
organization your non-profit verified on
Instagram my assumption is that you're
going to have to have your legal
business name somewhere in either your
username or your Instagram name I don't
think they're going to care very much
about logos or what your profile picture
is whether your profile picture is a
picture of your face or your Brand's
logo I don't think that's going to make
a real difference I think primarily what
Instagram is going to be looking for is
that your business's legal name whatever
server registered name your business is
is listed somewhere on the profile now
in order to actually apply and get meta
verified as an individual you needed to
submit a government ID in addition to
paying the monthly fee the monthly fee
for individuals was 25 dollars per month
and you had to submit basically a
picture of your driver's license or your
passport in order to prove that you were
in fact who you said you were and you
were a real person and then they could
verify you as an individual and that's
why really individual humans were the
only people who could be meta verified
dogs don't have driver's licenses and
businesses don't have photo IDs with a
first and last name on it but depending
on your country you most likely had to
register your business with some sort of
government agency maybe you have an LLC
maybe you have an EIN number maybe you
had to register with some certain Tax
Board to prove that your business was
legitimate that's most likely what meta
is going to be looking for in order to
verify that your business is in fact a
real business and it is the business
that you say you are one of the really
cool things that meta has done with with
meta verified is rather than just having
us all sit back wait cross our fingers
and hope that we get access to meta
verified you can actually apply to join
the wait list now the link to join the
waitlist is rather long so I will put it
down in the description below this
podcast so you can click and apply once
you're on there you can either select
whether you will be applying through
Instagram or through Facebook then you
just tap that button and it's very very
simple takes only a few seconds to apply
to join the wait list then once you join
the waitlist you can just sit back and
of course wait and meta will reach out
to you on the platform you chose again
either Instagram or Facebook once you
are eligible and ready to actually apply
for meta verified which again I just
want to make sure we're clear that
joining the wait list is different than
actually applying and getting meta
verified First We join the wait list
then once the application is available
we can apply and then once we apply
usually Instagram will get back to you
within 24 to 48 hours whether or not
your verification was approved if your
verification is approved then the
monthly billing will begin and you will
be charged 20 five dollars per month per
verified account in order to be a part
of meta verified and get all the
benefits that I previously listed with
all this being said I do have a few
thoughts around meta verified and
whether or not I think it's necessary
for you and your business whether or not
I think it's a good idea of course
ultimately you can make whatever
decision you want you can choose to do
with your money whatever you please but
I do want to share my own opinion my own
two cents to give you some things to
think about number one first and
foremost I wish these benefits were
offered to all users I wish everyone
could chat with Instagram support I
understand why technologically we can't
have that ability I mean there's two
billion users on Instagram if we all
could chat with support on a platform
that we're using for free who would be
paying for this support would Instagram
be paying them based off of the money
that they're making from ads and how
does that change their bottom line when
ultimately all of their quote unquote
customers the 2 billion of us are using
Instagram for quote unquote free so
again I wish these features were
available to everyone I understand more
or less why they're not but I still wish
they were personally I am verified on
Instagram I'm not technically meta
verified because I was verified before
this program was rolled out I was
actually verified back in 2020 and
sidebar it has nothing to do with my
marketing background it has nothing to
do with my Instagram growth I was
verified because I played college
football and back in 2020 Instagram was
throwing out blue checks willy-nilly to
anyone who played college sports so
that's when I got verified but if I
wasn't verified and I had a personal
brand a business anything on Instagram
that was verifiable I would pay because
in my opinion it's worth it in my
opinion the blue check alone is worth it
for the credibility and notoriety sake
but all of those additional benefits
being able to talk to support having
increased account protection and
impersonation protection all of that to
me is worth the twenty five dollars per
month monthly fee also again I am not an
accountant and this is not tax advice
but personally I will be using that
monthly fee as a tax write-off because
ultimately that is a business expense I
don't think you need meta verified but I
do think that businesses individuals
Brands influencers creators whoever you
are however you describe yourself
ultimately if you do have that blue
check next to your name if nothing else
it tells your followers or your
potential followers that you're taking
Instagram seriously that you are a
verified legitimate person and that you
care enough about Instagram this
community you're following however you
describe them in order to invest a
monthly fee to protect all of it and so
while over time the clout the social
currency of the blue check mark it will
fade it will diminish it will become
diluted as more and more tens of
thousands if not hundreds of thousands
if not millions of people buy the blue
check ultimately yes its value will
decline but I don't think it will ever
totally go to zero I do think that there
is still at least in 2023 and as we
enter into 2024 there is still some
value in the blue check even if it's a
superficial value even if you and I
individually know what the blue check
mark mark means and we know that people
have paid for it it does subconsciously
hold some weight and so again in order
to join the waitlist you can click the
link down in the description below this
video of course in no way was the
sponsored I wish meta would sponsor us
because that would be flipping awesome
meta if you're watching this if any of
meta staff is watching this I'd love you
for you to sponsor this podcast but
really this podcast was just meant to be
some reporting from me to you about how
do you apply how do you qualify how do
you get meta verified what the heck even
is it and then my own two cents about
whether or not you should thank you so
much for listening today and let me know
down in the comments if you're watching
this on YouTube are you going to apply
if you're an individual person have you
already applied have you experienced any
changes within your profile now that
you're a part of meta verified let me
know about your experience down in the
comments below and thank you so much for
listening today
[Music]
foreign